## Proposal to upgrade the governance canister

### Proposer: DFinity Foundation
### Wasm sha256 Hash: a4e5178ab2843a4f4f64b0286387b5511656300efbc7a4521c06e9d6e7f5271c
### Target canister: Governance Canister/rrkah-fqaaa-aaaaa-aaaaq-cai
---
## Release notes

### New features
* Allow to manually merge the maturity of a neuron
   On the request of many users, this change allows to merge the maturity of a neuron into the stake of the neuron itself. This needs to be done manually, by the user.

### Improvements
* Expand the summary field of proposals
   Currently the summary field of proposals is very small, which forces the text of the proposal to have to live in a url somewhere else. This makes it harder for users to understand what the proposal is about. This release allows the summary field to be considerably larger, thus making the content and context of proposals more visible to users.
* Remunerate multiple node providers in a single proposal
   Submitting node provider reward proposals is currently cumbersome as it requires submitting and voting on many proposals, one per node provider. This change allows to reward multiple node providers in a single proposal.
* Refresh a neuron by subaccount
   Some users have raised the issue that increasing the stake of a spawned (or split) neuron doesn't increase that neuron's stake. This was impossible to do since a neuron was only able to be refreshed by the memo, which is actually not used to compute the subaccount of neurons created with spawn/split. With this improvement even neurons generated this way can have their stakes refreshed.
